Blog post of my GSoC week-1 progress (#997)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/gsoc_2023/week1.md

---
title: GSoC Week 1 Reflections
date: 2023-06-10
author: Rohith Raju

> slug: Gsoc 2023

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: gsoc-2023-1st-week
```

the `slug` will be used as URL, it can't have spaces.

tags: ["Gsoc","Mentorship"]
---

> Hello Folks!, my name is Rohith, and I am thrilled to share my experiences and reflections on the first week of the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) period. 

Reviewer: Don't hesitate to link your name to your GitHub account.

# My Project: Falco Playground

 Falco provides an intuitive and highly expressive rule language for configuring its powerful runtime security engine. However, the community still lacks an official and frictionless IDE solution for writing and testing Falco rules. Since the last few releases, the Falco libraries increased the support for multiple architectures and platforms, and the integrated rules validator added a new output in machine-readable JSON format. The idea for this project is to add WebAssembly as a new officially-supported compilation target for Falco by leveraging the Emscripten toolchain, and creating a new development environment for security rules in the form of a web single-page application by running Falco right inside the browser. The end result is envisioned to be similar to the Go Playground, but without the need of any backend. The beauty of this idea is the opportunity of experiencing very different technologies of the cloud-native landscape all in a single project: low-level system code close to the Linux kernel, the fast-growing WebAssembly world, and frontend development for a web application.

> # New beginings 🚀

Author: Thank you for this!!

During this pre-GSoC contribution phase, [Jason Dellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce), my mentor, played a crucial role in guiding and supporting me. Jason provided valuable feedback on my early contributions, helped me navigate the project's codebase, and encouraged me to explore new areas for improvement. This continued collaborative relationship with Jason contributed to my growth as a contributor and helped set the stage for a successful GSoC journey.

As Week 1 of the official GSoC period began, my pre-GSoC contributions served as a foundation for diving deeper into the project. The knowledge and familiarity I had gained during this time allowed me to hit the ground running and make meaningful progress from the very beginning. It also reinforced the strong mentor-mentee relationship with Jason, as we had already established a rapport and had a shared understanding of the project's context.

Here is a summary of some of the pull requests (PRs) I have submitted up until today.

- [PR #1: Test For command falco -i (ignore default events)](https://github.com/falcosecurity/testing/pull/8)

>     - Description: The [falcosecurity/testing](https://github.com/falcosecurity/testing) repository contains regression test suite for Falco and other tools in its ecosystem. I contributed by adding a new test case for falco's help output when used with -i flag. I contributed to two more of such falgs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Description: The [falcosecurity/testing](https://github.com/falcosecurity/testing) repository contains a regression test suite for Falco and other tools in its ecosystem. I contributed by adding a new test case for Falco's help output when used with the `-i` flag. I also contributed to two other flags. 
```

- [PR #2: Semver check for RequiredAPIVersion values](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugin-sdk-go/pull/73)

>     - Description: This pr checks if user's RequiredAPIVersion follows semver system and checks if is compatible with internally-supported API version

Reviewer 2: I would user "semantic versioning" instead of "semver" to make it clearer.
```suggestion
    - Description: This PR checks if the user's RequiredAPIVersion follows the semver system and checks if it is compatible with the internally-supported API version.
```

    
-  [PR #3: Feat: Support for memfd_create syscall](https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/1127)   

>     - Desciption: Every time when the kernel is updated and released, a new syscall or an updated version of syscall might be added to the release. This can create new ways to expose vulnerabilities by which malicious activity can remain undetected by Falco. Therefore we need to update Falco's internal syscall table to patch vulnerabilities. This PR adds support to `memfd_create` syscall

Author: Yes, let me make it more clear!!
